dude I've seen how you chair meetings
it's not a democracy and it isn't an
open symposium in many ways I'm happy
for you and I don't want to discourage
you if you and your girlfriend are
living your dream
go ahead for anyone else attending those
meetings the situation is follow Jordan
or get out now and that's fine but
that's not what a campus vegan group
should be but this is the funny irony
when he first proposed this to me he
said hey will you sign will you sign
this piece of paper to be a founding
member for the University of Victoria
vegans group I said to him look man
maybe I was 36 at the time whatever was
a bunch of years ago look man like I can
sign this piece of paper but I've got to
tell you student groups are for students
like some of these people are gonna be
19 years old and you know like if they
know me if they know my YouTube channel
or something like that like I can show
up and be like a speaker or something I
can show up and say hi to people and
leave but no I'm not drinking beer with
students I'm not smoking weed with
students if you guys don't know I never
drink beer I never smoke weed anyway but
like dude student groups are for
students they're not for a grown-ass man
in his 30s like you Jordan to try to
recruit followers for his off-campus
political group which is exactly what
you tried to do any time you have to ask
yourself an ethical question like this
imagine it was some other political
party what if it was a right-wing group
that was doing what you're doing here
Jordan that was trying to recruit
University students into an off-campus
group by having an older man in his 30s
whatever was a left-wing group what it
was that what if it was a communist
party the youth wing of the Communist
Party sends in an old guy like you to
control a group into a student group in
the way that you're doing you'd say oh
that's kind of weird that's kind of
creepy and guess what it's probably
illegal under university statutes
because Jordan wasn't a student at
University of Victoria so he couldn't be
he could not own or control this group
but of course
like the controlling maniacal [ __ ] he
is that's exactly what he went on to do
look guys I ain't gonna lie to you it
says on screen right now I know this is
a boring video okay I'm not gonna lie to
you this is dealing with vegan politics
in the sleepy little town of Victoria
and I have the map on the left-hand side
of the screen for a reason what happens
in Victoria is linked to what's
happening in Vancouver a much bigger
city it's kind of like a half day
journey to get to yeah this says you
could do it in three hours
five hours is more likely whatever the
point is this matters as an anecdote in
itself because this one guy Jordan
Richard made life hell for everybody
aspiring to be a vegan activist in
Victoria for years I mean I guess it's
about four years now since he came back
to Victoria it's been awful and I am one
of those people where he's really
prevented me from being able to do what
I wanted to do
he's prevented me from even attending
events he's managed to monopolize what's
going on here in veganism in a really
negative way and you know what the
reality is most people who didn't like
it just went and got involved with
activists in Vancouver instead because
it's not that far away so I acknowledge
that but the broader kind of moral the
story here is a lot of people all over
the world in veganism have to deal with
these kinds of little Hitler's teapot
Napoleon's whatever you want to say
Jordan Reichert got donations and ran in
elections again and again and again this
is the general election of 2017 he ran
in provincial elections Federal
Elections and the most recently in the
the municipal city elections needed very
very poorly in all of them this this
election result 102 votes like dude you
should be able to wake up and see that
you're doing something wrong
in the latest city election
in order to win he would have needed to
get more than three times as many votes
as he did that one's a little bit
unusual because it wasn't one-man
one-vote
everybody got multiple votes you got to
spread out your votes all over the
ballot kind of thing so dude the numbers
are there that you should be willing to
really listen to people about what it is
you're doing wrong even though I know
you're blind to the harm you're doing
you're blind to the really negative
effect you're happy you're having on
people like me and you know it doesn't
have to be that many people cuz Victoria
is not that big a town you can even see
that actually from these vote numbers
the total number of votes here is only
thirty thousand you managed to get a
hundred out of out of thirty thousand
two hundred sixty-seven I am NOT making
this a popularity contest but just take
a second to look at these YouTube
numbers okay you managed to get into the
mainstream media by confronting the
Prime Minister of Canada which is
obviously partly just luck and you got
2,200 views on that video that's their
top center okay but guess what Jordan
nobody literally nobody wants to hear
what you have to say look at the numbers
on the other videos here okay when you
don't have a captive audience when
you're not bullying and domineering
people nobody wants to listen to your
message and you should be able to notice
that and take that on board and as a
career politician change your strategy
and tactics your messaging and your
method a little bit and you can't
because Jordan you are a domineering
[ __ ] and nobody ever says it to your
face and that's why you manage to float
along on your little cloud with your
little circle of supporters and ignore
the fact that it's not just you
personally or a complete disaster as a
vegan political candidate you've had a
really negative impact on all the people
wanting to make a positive impact
through veganism in the
little little part of the world okay
here's here's Jordans own channel and
guys
these numbers are inflated because I
myself have probably clicked on each of
them six or seven times I mean I was
coming back to I was wanting to know
what was going on in local vegan
activism I was one of the year's point
of view even though I dislike the guy he
absolutely dominates and controls all
vegan forms here including the anonymous
for the voiceless protests including the
University of Victoria vegans group
which are going to talk a lot more about
in this video so I'm coming back and
clicking on these and you're getting
number is like 29 views for video 32 0
sorry going back one second here the
Animal Protection Party that was your
project for years for years and I asked
you but you went through a phase Jordan
I'm sure you want to lie about it now
pretend it never happened you went
through a whole phase of getting rid of
the word vegan of course DXE did that at
about the same time too right action
everywhere did this the same thing the
owner knows somehow vegan is is a
liability it's a problem and you just
wanted to go with this name the animal
protection party you wanted to get more
support from people who were not vegan
that way yeah how did that work out for
you bro how did that work every 29 views
on that video one year later it's a sign
I'm not saying YouTube views or
everything almost not saying votes are
everything but yeah you know what in an
election especially in election where
you have a couple thousand dollars in
donations I don't know your exact budget
Jordan but I've seen I've seen you
spending money on these campaigns you're
getting some you're getting some
donations and that money might as well
been flushed
straight down the toilet Jordan because
you're not getting results and you're
not even communicating a meaningful
message so now gonna play you guys just
a 1 minute clip of what public speaking
from Jordan sounds like and this is only
one minute but it's so awful and it's so
boring that trust me it's gonna feel
like the longest 1 minute of your life I
mean unfortunately as they had the right
building a local area you're desperate
alone they're not well in this world I
would be the only way
and I am the only opportunity for you
and in this body to let somebody filled
ways for all ends
legislature that's a rare opportunity in
Tel Aviv so I'll ask you to remember the
tab that was here the same thing when
you go to vote because adults have a
voice and my partner would remind me
that they do because I wrote want a boy
stur animals have their own words
express it with their body to take
specific different way that we all claim
are inferior because it different their
meaningful they're expressing that
they're powerful when we invalidate that
point they're nominated part of
ourselves so I'm a representative for
the boys and here's the sad truth if you
think this is bad actually being in a
meeting with this guy actually trying to
talk politics with him like sitting
around table with they're only six or
eight people there which is obviously
what most vegan activist meetings are
like it's way worse because he's being a
domineering [ __ ] who won't let anyone
else speak and he really does talk this
slowly and it really does go on for
hours
and if you wait for your chance to talk
you get to say half a second and then he
cuts you off and dismisses you and shuts
you down and Jordan you know what the
main thing I heard back was from the
people who actually wanted this campaign
with you they were so disappointing you
because you had no motivation because
you were a wet blanket talking with the
municipal campaigner because you know
Jordan we have we have friends in common
my new vegan activists who really put
time and effort I think some of them
also donated money into your campaign to
support you and they said man you just
seemed depressed and vacant and vacuous
and you were just running up he just
said nothing worth listening to at any
of these public lectures and as I said
you Dom
all the meetings nobody else gets to
speak and it was massively demoralizing
for the vegans who support you know not
all them not all of them just for the
ones who talked to me and I think they
talked to me Jordan you know why I'm the
one who's willing to question your role
as self-appointed dictator for life
around here I imagine there are two
types of people who are really gonna
enjoy this video one type of person has
direct experience with Jordan Reichert
vegan politician with this one leader in
the vegan movement in there's one down
in Canada and is here to vent their
frustration that's one type of person
who's really gonna enjoy this video what
she'll is not that person this is that
person who can look at this in a broader
allegorical framework where the case
study were looking at here it represents
something that's wrong with vegan
politics and maybe you can relate to it
sympathetically from some other totally
different political struggle you've been
a part of some kind of movement maybe
even organizing a concert I mean trying
to organize anything with people will
you deal with this kind of character who
is an absolutely resolute tiny tyrant
he's like the world's pettiest Hitler
ruling with an iron fist over details
and making other people cow toe to his
authority in the most Picayune of ways
and it ultimately makes everybody
miserable and he remains blind to it
himself as you're gonna see
he remains blind to it even when I take
the time to sit him down and talk it
through it and explain to him exactly
what the problem is he remains blind to
it most of all because he at all times
has a small circle of people who enable
him in this case it's his girlfriend and
just a couple of other really cult-like
followers this guy has I've seen it some
of them really do have cult-like
OSHA's this guy had put up with his crap
and then there's a larger circle of
people who will just not their head say
nothing and believe me Jordan those
people when you're not around say what a
piece of crap that you are but they're
not getting paid it don't tell you what
appeasing they're not your psychoanalyst
they're not your friend they're not your
enemies
they're just feel like I owe ya Jordan's
doing it okay good good luck with that
during hey good luck and they keep it
moving okay
this happens on all levels so the
conflict I had with Jordan he really
shouldn't have been a conflict at all
here you see on screen he says to me I
need you to state clearly what the
problem is right here because there have
been no problems until now you seem to
be upset that I defended our position on
the location we chose for the event now
that doesn't tell you so much about what
the problem is but I think you're gonna
figure it out within the first paragraph
of my reply when this was written Jordan
I were about the same age so let's say
37 how many years ago is this now
something like that and I was a student
on University of Victoria campus where I
was learning Chinese I say to Jordan
here when we first talked about this and
I first signed up for the group I said
that I would show up and say hello to
people just to meet other vegans etc but
that there would be limits to my
involvement because I don't really think
it is appropriate for someone in his
mid-30s to be controlling a group of
teenagers in a campus group why would
you be playing a leadership role in this
UVic group as stated I wouldn't do that
myself and I really am a UVic student
whereas you are not so I have never
gotten Jordan to admit to me how it
finally ended with this UVic group that
he started I sure did get complaints
Jordan from students who were in that
group they got complaints and they said
they were mystified as to why you were
even there
but the
irony of the situation is I was a
student at University of Victoria so I
was one of the signing members I signed
at the beginning so I was a member I was
a founder and incense
I was one of the five people were
supposed to control and organize the
group right and Jordan wasn't because
Jordan wasn't a student at University of
a Taurus so he couldn't be he could not
own or control this group but of course
like the controlling maniacal [ __ ] he
is that's exactly what he went on to do
and this conversation started cuz I
wrote to him said you know Jordan I was
a signing member of that group and I've
never been invited to a single event you
never told me what happened I was never
put in the mailing list for email or
whatever was I signed to join that group
and then all this time went by and you
intentionally froze me out which is what
you did Jordan I mean to my knowledge
that's what you did because anytime you
and I are in the same room you feel I'm
a threat to your authority and you have
to control a tiny coven of people who
will not question you will not interrupt
you who do not have their own ideas
people who will say just like the people
who showed up at your the launch party
for your electoral campaign when you ran
for government people who will just sit
there and say Jordan we support whatever
it is you want to do and let you
monologue for hours of the most
mind-numbing ly boring public meetings
imaginable and let me just say guys I'm
not someone who finds vegan politics
boring I have a very high level of the
interest in discussion to where we are
and the other parties are saying let's
continue doing that we're just going to
change things up a little bit left on
enough we can't keep leading them out if
you like living in the world with our
imagine just trying to imagine that
that's our cities as in our forest after
our oceans without dominance where is
the representation in our legislature
but them not so imagine you have a
moment here Victoria we can help to make
history you can elect first but this is
the funny irony when he first proposed
this to me he said hey will you sign
will you sign this piece of paper to be
a founding member for the University of
Victoria vegans group I said to him look
man maybe I was 36 at the time whatever
was a bunch of years ago
look man like I can sign this piece of
paper but I've got to tell you student
groups are for students like some of
these people are gonna be 19 years old
and you know like if they know me if
they know my youtube channel or
something like that like I can show up
and be like a speaker or something I can
show up and say hi to people and leave
but no I'm not drinking beer with
students I'm not smoking weed with
students if you guys don't know I never
drink beer I never smoke weed anyway but
like dude student groups are for
students they're not for a grown-ass man
in his 30s like you Jordan to try to
recruit followers for his off-campus
political group which is exactly what
you tried to do in my opinion you failed
maybe you catch one or two it's not what
I heard I heard that you failed and when
I asked you about it you just indicated
that it was some kind of disaster I
don't know but it's really ironic that
at that time immediately when I had no
time to think about it I said look I can
sign this piece of paper but my
involvement is gonna be limited and then
guess what guess what I find out that's
like I think it's more than a year later
it was a long time later I asked you
what happened to this group many many
months later I'd nerd anything about it
and I said you know so what happened to
the student group I was a signing member
of and turns out he did exactly what I
explained to him I would consider
unethical what I would never do so thus
as stated
you compose a message in pseudo legalese
why are you referring yourself as we in
a UVic student message form no it isn't
appropriate for you to be quote-unquote
regulating a UVic group's Facebook chat
by quoting policy statements and
speaking in terms of we that's exactly
what he did
if the UVic club is as you claim
controlled by Viva it shouldn't be so
Viva is him it's his little it's him and
his girlfriend it's their little cult
group of their close devotees who are
not University students neither an age
nor they nor were they like me an older
person happens to be world's a student
they are not students they're not part
of the campus that's your own political
group and guys anytime you have to ask
yourself an ethical question like this
imagine it was some other political
party what if it was a right-wing group
that was doing what you're doing here
Jordan that was trying to recruit
university students into an off-campus
group by having an older man in his 30s
whatever was a left-wing group what it
was that what if it was a communist
party the youth wing of the Communist
Party sends in an old guy like you to
control a group into a student group in
the way that you're doing you'd say oh
that's kind of weird that's kind of
creepy and guess what it's probably
illegal under university statutes not
not the real law but in terms of
university rules and regulations
probably forbidden on campus right
you're right it is forbidden Jordan what
you're doing was against the rules
it's supposed to be a student group by
students and for students not by you not
for you Jordan it was totally obvious to
me as soon as he did let me into the
Facebook group that was exactly what's
going on not a front for you to pull
UVic students into whatever meeting you
and your girlfriend are hosting at Green
Cuisine really think about the role
you're choosing to play here yes you
sound like you're on the world's most
hilarious ego trip in speaking in terms
of we in that reply why are you making
an official policy statement who is the
quote unquote weed that you imagined
elected you etc and even so why would
you way into a UVic forum in this way
it's absurd
man really so I'm quoting him back here
quote UVic vegan Club is a subgroup of
Viva so when there are ethical concerns
raised about events we are hosting in
his mine or other administrators
responsibility to trust them he can't
even be a member of this group he's not
a student this is a student group on
campus you're not an administrator
you're not a leader no one elected you
no one chose you you're not supposed to
be here and again even though I was a
student I refuse to play this kind of
role it's just not appropriate and guys
please don't misunderstand me I'm not
saying it's creepy I'm not saying it's
even well it's against the rules I'm not
saying it's criminal it's not
appropriate we have to talk about things
that are in bad taste and inappropriate
and guess what it made people's lives
miserable including mine including mine
and the couple of people who send me
emails or contacted me on Facebook about
what a piece of garbage you are Jordan
and guess what in a city the size of
Victoria like six vegan activists really
matter you're not pulling on a talent
pool of thousands of vegans so if you're
alienating and obstructing what a few
vegans like myself and those other
people want to do on campus you're
having a significant negative impact and
why are you doing it for your own
ridiculous ego trip as we're gonna try
to get through here real quick
no I spoke in the first person about my
personal reasons for not attending the
event in response to other students in
the group I wasn't talking to Jordan I
was just talking to other students felt
while I wasn't gonna show up at a
particular event you have absolutely
zero responsibility to regulate anything
in this conversation zero you aren't
even a student but if you spoke about
yourself as a normal human being first
person singular that would have been a
pretty natural or normal response no
instead you spoke in terms of we a quote
on quote we what do you think that means
to a 19 year old member of a group like
this everyone could see your baby even
when you make that kind of statement
everyone see you're claiming to be in a
position of authority and you're making
it really clear that everyone in that
group either has to conform to the rule
you're sitting down or
get out which is how you run all your
groups Jordan that's why it is so
miserable to sit in the room while you
tyrannical II run your crappy little
meanings at Green Cuisine with your
coven of admirers dude I've seen how you
chair meetings it's not a democracy and
it isn't an open symposium in many ways
I'm happy for you and I don't want to
discourage you if you and your
girlfriend are living your dream go
ahead for anyone else attending those
meetings the situation is follow Jordan
or get out now and that's fine but
that's not what a campus vegan group
should be I'm saying you can do that at
Green Cuisine you can do that at the
restaurant you can do that in your
apartment or a coffee shop don't do that
on campus stop screwing up what should
be a University vegan group a group I
myself would want to keep a kind of
respectful distance from because I don't
think it's appropriate for me to hang
out in a bar and drinking beer with 19
year old students nobody should be
looking at your statement on
quote-unquote policy phrased in terms of
what we believe in a casual conversation
of this kind dude how do you think that
makes you look i screenshot at your
statement and said to a fellow students
this is another vegan at the same
university by the way I don't mention
the shoes again I said to a fellow
student about 22 years old a bit older
than most and she said that she laughed
out loud at both of your statements she
also actually told me that she thought
this guy was being and that he was only
there
but it's irrelevant I mean again that is
ultimately irrelevant it's not about
what's creepy it's about what's
appropriate and it's really about having
a culture of democracy rather than a
culture of autocracy and that's how you
ran everything and I think a lot of
people fed this experience in vegan
activism over the last five years a lot
of people send emails about little
tyrants who run little movements where
they live all around the world making it
miserable to be a vegan activist unless
you want to work alone I'm not saying
that I'm perfect but that's exactly why
I do not want to be in a position of
authority or leadership over teenagers I
go to class with these sane teenagers
every day I remember what it was like to
have a part-time job at Starbucks etc
yeah a university Viktoria vegan Club is
a good idea
Jordan Reichert operating it as the
youth wing of the tiny organization he
runs with his girlfriend is not a good
idea the fact that you think or feel you
have to regulate a harmless comment in
which I very clearly said I wasn't
trying to per se to persuade anyone else
I simply said that I was not going to
attend a meeting in a church I was not
gonna set foot inside a church instead
ever shows just how far off base you
slipped in your attitudes here I really
am NOT saying this out of any kind of
animosity towards you regarding we spend
a great deal of time and energy I
realize that you and your girlfriend do
more work than anyone else in your
organization and imagine that in many
ways this makes you feel
underappreciated etc okay so here's his
reply our efforts to rip this connect
this guy's known me
we've talked personally many times this
point type of person lives and he's
answering me in this autocratic way it's
unbelievable our efforts to raise
awareness of veganism throughout the
community are our own and we work to
empower individuals in different areas
of the community to take leadership
roles on we like are you copying and
pasting this from corporate letterhead
it's it's unbelievable the disconnect
between my down-to-earth
communication I'm already known for I
know at least a year at this point and
and and is replied to me okay we wanted
to start a new big vegan Club for vegans
at UVic to meet other vegans and raise
awareness with because this wasn't
happening it was Jordan
it was happening without you you moved
in and you know you prevented exactly
people like me and real students from
doing something that would have made
sense for students it didn't serve your
political purposes why are you so mad as
the person who organized this group and
who helps the president yes I have a
role to play in it you you're not the
president
Jordan you can't be you're not a student
you can't organize the group you can't
even be a member of the group it's a
student group and those are the rules on
campus and you were breaking them from
day one and I wonder if that's why you
never told me when I asked you in person
face to face what happened to the UVic
vegans group and ever you and the other
people your end of the table you all
looked real uncomfortable and try to
change the subject
in a disaster I wonder if someone
stepped in and said look guys what
you're doing here is not legitimate
because it's not we we want vegans in
the group to know about all the other
stuff that is out in the community
because there is a lot you manage to
make a spelling error there that
normally native speakers of English do
not make but I continue and we want them
to feel included
I don't feel a response to a fair of the
situation I'm not an ego trip I'm just
trying to build community using we does
not have anything to do with trying to
speak in legalese it is what it is it is
that the immense who run vivo represent
a set of ideals that quote unquote we
believe in if you don't that's fine you
don't have to participate what that part
boils down to again is he's making these
authoritarian statements either you can
get in line and obey or you can get the
hell out that's it okay so I'm gonna
read all this I'm gonna keep going
and I'm gonna try to read fast
[Music]
I don't really care who you showed it to
or their response to be honest I have
had people message me when they saw this
thread and supported my position too but
I don't need to prove anything to you if
you believe you're absolutely right what
you're saying that I'm happy for you
I've not insulted you or undermined your
opinion as far as I can tell
have a good night sir reply here and
this is the ultimate problem with the
people who take on these quote-unquote
leadership roles and then go mad with
the tiny amount of authority they have
so Jordan why did you bother speaking me
at all you're not interested in
answering any questions raised you're
not interested in hearing responding
anything I've got to say you start and
finish by basically saying I don't care
what you or anyone else has to say okay
so why did you open the discussion you
asked me to state clearly what the
problem was you did that repeatedly
publicly and privately and now your
response is I don't care I'm not
listening to you I don't care what
anyone else has to say I quote back what
he said earlier where he says I don't
care about anyone's response I don't
care your response or animals response
and again if it's five or six people
it's a small university student group in
a small city those are as big as the
numbers yet and I reply Jordan you are
still missing my point one my direct
point was that I'm not pretending to
represent any we whatsoever this
involves a very small number of people
thus I was drawing your attention to
possibility that it really would be
better for you two to speak in the first
person singular
- if teenagers are writing to you to
show their approval or to get your
approval in response to this discussion
because you are the quote-unquote leader
of this group then please reflect that
this should not be happening no a man in
his mid thirties should not be getting
message to that kind from teenage
students in a university group etc this
isn't a faculty group Jordan it's a
student group please really think about
what an absurd situation is for you to
be soliciting the approval of teenagers
on a university campus or vice versa for
them to be soliciting your approval you
should not be playing a leadership role
here of any kind and as I stated last
year and stated again now neither should
i because I'm too old although I really
am a university student and you ain't
you should not be playing politics
are trying to get quote-unquote support
from teenagers man just pause to reflect
on what that situation really is as
stated I'm not saying that I'm perfect
but that's exactly why I do not want to
be in a position of authority or
leadership over teenagers I go to class
with these same teenagers every day I
remember what it was like to have a
part-time job at Starbucks etc you
really need to re-examine the game
you're playing here I'm someone who
knows you personally I'm someone who you
know personally we've discussed our
divorces together etc that's right I
remember he had just gotten divorced
that time that was in process the non
divorce - and you apply to me this way
you apply to me with these statements of
policy referring to yourself as we etc
and then you want to delete any trace
the discussion afterwards etc etc does
that sound like democracy to you does
that sound like student democracy to you
or does that simply sound like the type
of relaxed expression of views that
would be natural and normal without a
thirty-year-old intervening in a student
Facebook group all of the attitudes
you've described to me indicate that
you're exactly the kind of grown man who
should not be meddling in a UVic student
group if a group exists for people to be
able to talk really they're gonna say
more offensive things to you with less
reason and they should not be looking at
a policy statement from Viva Viva is
just him and his girlfriend and who
really is the we in public policy
statements in Viva it's just you Jordan
speak for yourself keep it real so yeah
this is a particular controversy with a
particularly derp at a particular time
but guess what this one guy made it
impossible for me to participate in
vegan organizations on University campus
vegan organizations in the city of
Victoria and at least some several vegan
organizations in the city of Vancouver
okay and Jordan I've seen your YouTube
channel I've seen your lectures you go
around giving political lectures on
veganism and guess what the difference
is between you and me when you give
lectures
nobody wants to hear them and that's why
you're such a tyrannical [ __ ] because
you you need to have a captive audience
and when the people in the audience
speak you ain't listening
[Music]